Welcome to the complete spanish verb
tenses guide I will explain Every single
verb tense in 20 minutes after watching
this video You Will have a way better
understanding of spanish grammar whether
You are a beginner or an Advanced
learner looking for a refresher today's
lesson is made for you to help you with
this I've created a free PDF with All
the Spanish verb tenses I've also
included some irregular Verbs there to
complete the explanation of this video
So let's go I'll explain All the tenses
first and after that I'll put examples
of each tense for you to process the
tenses better and to Finish a quick
recap that Will make things very Easy
for you so watch till the
end in spanish We have three types of
Verbs Verbs that end in r Verbs that end
in r and Verbs that end in ir We also
have three different MS tres modos modo
indicativo
modo subjuntivo y modo imperativo el
indicativo has senses el subjuntivo has
six tenses and el imperativo has Just
One t let's learn them all starting with
the nonfinite verb forms las formas no
verbales
infinitivo the verb ending in ar er or
ir today use cantar to sing comer to eat
and
gerundio
cantando
comiendo
viviendo
participio
cantado
comido
vivido infinitivo compuesto haber Plus
participle participio haber
cantado haber comido haber
vivido gerundio con
in form
particip habiendo
cantado habiendo comido habiendo
vivido modo
indicativo the indica To talk about
anything factual events It is the weuse
the most We have Five simple tenses and
perfect
tenses present presente de indicativo
cantar yo canto tú cantas él canta
nosotros cantamos vosotros cantáis ellos
cantan yo tú él o ella el he ella She
nosotros or nosotras nosotros masculin
nosotras feminine vosotros Or vosotras
You plural vosotros mascul vosotras
femin ellos or ellas
ellos masculine ellas de feminine you
might ask where is usted en ustedes
usted formal uses the same form as en
ella en ustedes you all formal Us the
same form as ellos and ellas comer como
comes come comemos coméis
vivir yo vivo tú vives é vive nosotros
vivimos vosotros vivís Ellos
viven If the verb is regular the Verbs
of the same Group are or ir Will have
the same endings you have the endings of
each tense in Green So You cane them We
the present tense for facts descriptions
and things that you usually do in
english
Canta muy
bien Yo como macarrones todos los
jueves nosotras vivimos en
Sevilla simple t is related to a perfect
t el presente is connected with
pretérito perfecto compuesto This tens
is made with the verb a is irregular in
the present Plus parp of the ver con
so need to learn verb it means there Is
there are and it works like in English
if you use it Alone it doesn't mean
anything so it e as
aemos
and Plus the particip cantado comido
vivido have have eaten have left we
generally use the present perfect for
actions
has he cantado una canción por la
mañana Ana ha comido hoy en mi
restaurante
favorito mis abuelos han vivido muy
felices Now How do you talk about
actions that happened Yesterday or even
10 minutes ago That's Where the past
tens is com to play up next We tle the
preter and imperfect and you learn When
to choose the right past tense Every
Time pretérito perfecto simple yo canté
tú cantaste ella cantó nosotras cantamos
vosotras cantasteis ellas
cantaron comí comiste comió comimos
comisteis
comieron viví viviste vivió vivimos
vivisteis
vivieron Us To talk about completed acs
in the past and actions that took in aic
Time inast María le cantó una canción
preciosa a su
novio ayer comí
lentejas mi abuelo vivió la guerra
civil the per
anteri con pretérito perfecto simple
Plus the participle of the verb you
conjugating good news for you we use
theit anterior in liter but here It is
hubiste hubo hubimos
hubisteis
hubieron flash cantado comido
vivido de pretérito ante
exes that a past action took Place
before another action in the past but
for that we use another tense Stay tuned
Tan pronto como hubo cantado se fue al
hotel pretérito
imperfecto we use the preterito
imperfecto To talk about an action that
was ongoing or that was habitual in the
past yo cantaba tú cantabas él cantaba
nosotros cantábamos vosotros cantabais
ellos cantaban comía comías comía
comíamos comía
comían vivía vivías vivía vivíamos vivía
vivían mi madre cantaba en el coro
cuando iba a la escuela
primaria nosotras comíamos mucho pescado
cuando éramos pequeñas
Tú vivías en Barcelona en aquella
época the perfect form from the
preterito imperfecto is preterito Plus
perfecto to an AC took Place before
another action in the past We conjugate
the verb pretérito imperfecto and
parp yoa
habías ella había nosotras habíamos
vosotras habíais ellas habían cantado
comido vivido nunca había cantado
delante de tanta
gente Ayer María se encontraba mal había
comido demasiado antes de irse a
dormir ellos ya habían vivido en Sevilla
antes de mudarse aquí otra vez
let's draw the map of the past tenses so
generally If the present is here present
canto things that happen in the
immediate past and ended use pretérito
perfecto compuesto he cantado things
that happen a little or long before that
and Had an end use pretérito perfecto
simple things that happ before another
Thing in the p We are talking about
pretérito Plus cuan perfecto había
cantado and things that for some in the
p or a Clear and use pretérito
imperfecto cantaba and What about the
future plans i bet you have some Future
plans So let's go with the futuro simple
cantaré cantarás cantará cantaremos
cantaris cantarán comeré comerás comerá
Comeremos comeréis comerán viviré
vivirás vivirá viviremos vivis
vivirá Us To talk about What We Will do
an action in the future ors about an
action in the present or Future mañana
Cantaré a las
9 el fin de semana Comeremos pa
ella nunca he vivido una pelea
ya la
vivirás and from the future we build the
perfect Future futuro compuesto We
conjugate the verb a in the futuro
simple abr abrá abrá habremos abris
habrán cantado comido vivido We have Sun
We have eaten Will have left with we can
make AC
particip pasado mañana ya habrás cantado
en tu primer
concierto Qué le pasa a
María habrá comido
demasiado cuando seamos ancianos
habremos vivido una vida muy
feliz we also think of probabilities and
hypothetical scenar
What do we use for that in English the
conditional is a m itself but in spanish
it is a tense inside the indicative mood
let's check the condicional simple we
use the condicional simple To talk about
hypothetical situations to give advice
and make request yo cantaría tú
cantarías él cantaría nosotros
cantaríamos vosotros cantaría ellos
cantarían comería comerías
comería comeríamos comería
comerían viviría vivirías viviría
viviríamos viviría
vivirían Si yo fuera tú cantaría todos
los
días that fuera is a subjunctive Chance
Stay tuned te comerías mi segundo
plato yo viviría la vida de Taylor sin
pensarlo dos
veces and What do we make out of the
simple conditional the perfect
conditional condicional compuesto we
build by conjugating a ver to the
conditional and adding the participle
like in English I would have abría abras
abría abríamos habríais abrían
cantado comido vivido would have s would
have eaten would have lived we is the
perfect conditional To talk about What
would have done or What would have
happened in a hypothetical situation si
lo pudiera hacer otra vez habría cantado
otra
canción subjunctive with conditional Qué
pena que no vinieras habrías comido muy
bien
with si Marina hubiera venido habría
vivido la mejor experiencia de su
vida subjunctive with conditional
Again If You're a little l in spanish
grammar something that Will help you a
lot is this free study guide that you
can Download on Our webpage it Will
guide you Step by Step While you learn
spanish on your own you have the link in
the
description Now the most hated mood by
spanish learner all spaniard also ha it
When we study at schol But You Get Used
To these tenses Pretty quickly when you
hear them Being Used and I'm going to
give you good news in a little While
let's dive into the subjunctive mood el
modo subjuntivo we use it to give a
subjective thoughts and communicate
things like wishes and doubts oala I
wish is Always accompanied by a
subjunctive form we also see see If
followed by subjunctive a lot in
subordinate cla
adv presente de subjuntivo
cante cantes cante
Cantemos
cis
canten
coma comas coma
comamos
comais
coman Viva Viva
viva vivamos
viváis
vivan m wishes ands quiero que me cantes
una
canción No creo que Ana coma pollo
hoy Ojalá vivamos muchos años
juntos pretérito perfecto compuesto del
subjuntivo conjugate the verb a ver to
present subjunctive remember It is
irregular yo hya tú hallas él hya
nosotros hallamos vosotros halláis ellos
hayan cantado comido
vivido llámame cuando hayas
cantado espero que hayas comido bien
Ojalá hayáis vivido una experiencia
inolvidable pretérito imperfecto del
subjuntivo I really like this tens but I
have something s to Tell you there are
two different forms for this tens and
both are Always interchangeable but They
are very Easy to remember cantara o
cantase cantaras o cantas cantara o
cantase cantamos o cemos cantaris o
cantase cantaran o
cantas comiera o comiese comieras o
comies es comiera o comiese comiéramos o
comemos comiera o comiese comieran o
comiesen viviera o viviese vivieras o
vivies viviera o viviese viviéramos o
viviemdas
era es era s also Us For thoughts and
wishes here are some examples for you to
see When we use it Si cantáramos a las 5
podríamos salir de fiesta esta noche
Ojalá comemos tortilla de patatas
hoy me encantaría que los perros
vivieran más
años and the perfect tense that uses
this pretérito imperfecto is pretérito
Plus perfecto del subjuntivo If the
imperfecto has two forms the Plus
perfecto also has two forms we conjugate
a ver to the pretérito imperfecto del
subjuntivo and
hubiera hubiese hubieras hubieses
hubiera hubiese hubiéramos hubiésemos
hubierais hubieseis hubieran
hubiesen cantado comido vivido we use it
to reflect on actions in the past that
were followed by another most commonly
to wish something H or hadn't happened
or to give thoughts Si hubieras cantado
más tarde te habría podido
Escuchar Ojalá no hubiéramos comido
espinacas Si hubiesen vivido más tiempo
habrían conocido a sus
nietos Hey if you like the video Please
give it a thumbs up Gracias and Now the
good news next is the future and Future
perfect of the subjunctive m but we
don't use
them think might
futuro simple de
subjuntivo cantare cantares cantare
cantaremos cantaris
cantar comiere comieres comiere comemos
comiereis
comier viviere
vivieres viviere vivemos vivis
viven The Only sentence I've heard with
Future subjunctive is a spanish proverb
that says a donde fueres haz lo que
vieres wherever you go do What you see
and de futuro compuesto de subjuntivo a
ver in futuro simple de subjuntivo flash
participio Never heard this tense in Any
conversation Never hbi
hbibi
hosis hubieren cantado comido
vivido let's Cut the examples Because
you won use this and Now The Last
One modo
imperativo and This is just One t and
Just for the Second person you Is
Paradise is this Paradise so for the
pronoun We have tú vosotros usted en
ustedes tú
canta vosotros
Cantad usted cante ustedes canten tú
come
comed
coma
coman
vive
vivid viva
vivan canta una
canción comed
mucho Viva su vida y déjeme en
paz Great Job on following All the ches
with me I Know It was a lot So let's
review it in a more simple way in a
quick recap for you to remember using
the sentence hablar español to speak
Spanish and using Just the First person
yo tiempos no verbales Infinity
hablar español gerundio hablando
español
participio hablado español infinitivo
compuesto haber hablado español Jerundio
compuesto habiendo hablado
español modo indicativo presente yo
hablo español pretérito perfecto
compuesto yo he hablado español
pretérito perfecto simple yo hablé
español pretérito anterior yo hu hablado
español pretérito imperfecto yo hablaba
español pretérito Plus cuan perfecto yo
había hablado español futuro simple yo
hablaré
español futuro compuesto yo habré
hablado español condicional simple yo
hablaría español condicional compuesto
yo habría hablado
español modo subjuntivo presente que yo
hable español pretérito perfecto
compuesto que yo haya hablado español
pretérito imperfecto que yo hablara
hablase español pretrito Plus cuan
perfecto que yo hubiera hubiese hablado
español futuro simple que yo hablare
español futuro compuesto que yo hubiere
hablado
español modo imperativo habla
español review them Every Now and then
And You remember them Oh Yes it Will be
Great if you read or Listen to Spanish
and analyze All the verb tenses they use
there I have video bl speaking Slow
spanish that Will help you a lot watch
it and have a Look at the tenses I'm
using Keep on practicing